---
title: "My Monastery Journey: A Decade of Learning and Growth"
slug: my-monastery-journey-learning-growth

date: "2024-04-18"
draft: false

author: Tenzin Gyatso

tags:
  - Monastic Life
  - Buddhist Studies
  - Spiritual Journey

categories: ["Tenzin Gyatso"]
---

My Monastery name is Sera Mey Monastic University, located in Karnataka state, South India. I joined Sera Mey Monastery in 1992. From 1992 to 2022, I dedicated all my time to studying various subjects and topics. When I first joined the monastery, I attended the school for studying modern knowledge education, including English, Mathematics, science, and Tibetan language. I studied these subjects for seven years.

At that time, my life was very interesting and happy. Since I was young, I had no plans for the future. I just focused on my studies and enjoyed my free time. I performed well in my classes, sometimes even topping them.

After completing my schooling, I joined the monastery's debate class to study Buddhist philosophy for seventeen years. My great guru from the Monastery guided me through these studies on the five major subjects. In 2009, I registered for the Gelug University Exam to earn a degree. After a month, I was informed that I had passed the exam. Then I prepared for the biggest exam in my life. This six-year exam involved fierce competition not only between students but also among monasteries, as students came from various monasteries. I completed this exam and received my degree along with a certificate at the end of 2022.

During these years, I did not engage in any special activities but I took on normal student jobs such as school captain and joined Tibetan freedom struggles. Now that I have completed all my monastery studies, I am taking it easy and trying to learn new things. I believe, life is for learning, and this has been my journey through the monastery. Thank you.
