---
title: "A Monk's Reflections on Auspicious Fridays, Daily Rituals, and Simple Life"
slug: monk-daily-life-friday

date: "2024-04-19"
draft: false

author: Tenzin Gyatso

tags:
  - Monk Life
  - Daily Rituals
  - Tibetan Tradition

categories: ["Monk"]
---

Today is Friday, and Fridays are considered to be an auspicious day in our tradition.

This morning, I woke up at 6 am, brushed my teeth and freshened up as usual. After that, I offered water and incense to Lord Buddha and my root Guru, and prayed for all sentient beings who are alive in this beautiful world.

Then, I sat on my bed with folded legs and assumed a vertical body position. I focused on love and compassion, and recited some mantras of deities.

After completing those tasks, I had breakfast with my disciple and shared some thoughts with each other. My disciple then went to his room to memorise the debating class scripture. I began my daily prayer with quiet movements.

During my prayer time, I can sometimes think about positive thoughts very deeply. However, at other times, many negative thoughts arise, attempting to destroy my virtues. This is the condition of most people's minds. Good things don’t happen everyday, and so does bad things.

Most of our daily lives are spent doing good things for others and thinking about other’s wellbeing. We do not need to think about families, occupations, or similar concerns. Our lifestyle is simple and free from many general problems. This is the life of a monk. However, before entering monk life, one must sacrifice various things, which many people are unaware of. They merely see monk life as happy and say "blah blah blah" behind them. That is all; I don't have any typical activities in my daily routine.
