---
title: "Sharing My Favourite Book: My Land and My People"
slug: my-favourite-book-my-land-my-people

date: "2024-04-22"
draft: false

author: Tenzin Gyatso

tags:
  - Buddhist Literature
  - Tibetan History
  - Dalai Lama Books

categories: ["Monk"]
---

Today, I will share some of my favorite books, quotes, and scriptures. Over the years, I have read numerous scriptures during my study times. However, these readings were not always based on personal preference but rather for exam purposes.

During my free time, reading a book is quite rare in my life. However, a few years ago, I came across a book by our Guru, His Holiness the Dalai Lama. The title of the book was "My Land and My People." This book has been an incredible and fascinating addition to my life. It recounts the story of when the Tibetans sought refuge in India and how His Holiness managed to stay in India for a long time.

When His Holiness and the Tibetans arrived in India, they didn't know mcuh about the conditions and climate of India. So they faced numerous challenges due to language and environmental differences. Many Tibetans lost their lives due to hot weather and unfamiliar food.

In this book "My Land and My People", His Holliness writes about how he planned for their settlement in India. He established schools, monasteries, and hospitals, paving the way for future generations to receive an education. Today, we can look back on his vision and see its incredible impact on Tibetan life. With the implementation of his plans, most Tibetans have become educated.

Not only that, many Tibetan lamas and Geshes have contributed significantly to Western and Indian society through education and psychology. All this is a testament to the grace of Our Holy Guru, His Holiness the Dalai Lama.
