---
title: "A Day in the Life: Meals at My Monastery"
slug:

date: 2024-04-25T02:21:07+05:30
draft: false

author: Tenzin Gyatso

tags:
  - Monk Life
  - Vegetarian
  - Tibetan Culture

categories: [""]
---

Today, I am going to describe my daily meals in the monastery. In our monastery and school, the meals are served by the monastery. I think this is similar to all monasteries and schools at any place. Typically, we have three meals a day in our monastery. We have a friendly kitchen for all monks. From there, they serve three meals to each monk every day. So, the schedule of the meal in a day is: morning bell ring at 7 am, afternoon at 11:30 am, and evening at 5 pm. The quality of the meal is mostly the same in the morning and afternoon; the evening meal is a little different from the other two.

The typical meals we have in my monastery are as follows: In the morning, it's always bread, tea, and jam or butter that changes daily. In the afternoon, we have rice, dal, and fruit. And in the evening they serve different things each day. Some examples of evening meals are Tibetan Thukpa, bread with vegetables, Chowkmein, Tingmo with vegetables, and so on.

Usually, most monks have a kitchen in their room. So, some monks make extra vegetables with rice or bread when they receive the monastery meal. All meals in the monasteries are vegetarian every day. If someone wants to eat meat for a meal, you never get that in the monastery; you need to go outside of the monastery. On special occasions at the monastery, they also serve typical food to the monks from the kitchen. Actually, those meals are also similar to the above.
